# Spring-2020-Intro to Microprocessor Systems
Content for CDA 3331C - Intro to Microprocessor Systems, offered during Spring 2020 at FAU, Boca Raton, FL

Hi, Welcome to the course! All assignment related material (assignments, submissions, and grading) will be found at Canvas. All supporting documents will be posted here. The course was designed to be self-contained, so distance learning and off-campus students are just as productive as the on-campus students. Much supporting material is available online, both from us and the company (Microchip) that makes the embedded system development board used in this course. There is a large ueer group and there is much code available online. You are welcome to use any and all resources available to you. However, do note that the lab and home assignments and the exams will all require you to build 

We will use the Curiosity HPC Development Board from Microchip. This is a highly integrated board which has a PIC16F18875 microcontroller on the board. In addition, to make it easy to experiment with peripherals, the board has two push buttons, 1 potentiometer, and several LEDS. Through two headers, one can connect to many additional peripheral devices, all arranged to make it a productive enjoyable eperience. Essentially, any development process takes place in the following steps: Decide on the various modules of the microcontroller that you need for your embedded system design project, configure them (i.e., choose the many options that each of these modules has), write C code (in an incremental fashion), connect external input/outpout components (peripherals) as needed to the board, compile and execute on the board. There is very little chance that you will damage or 'burn out' any hardware component, if you follow certain minimum set of guidelines. However, the embedded system, as it involves close cooperation of hardware and software, is likely to fail. If so, one would use debugging software tools to trace where the code is failing to achieve its objectives, just as you did in your Intro to C course. The only addition now will be that you will inspect various hardware entities, such as registers, memory, and data at input/output devices, all in a software environment. If you decided to take our 5xxx level course on embedded system design in a later semester, you will get to use hardware debuggng and analysis tools; but that is not a goal for this course. 

The microcontroller was designed from bottom-up to support the C language, so the users do not have to write code in the assembly language, which are architecture dependent and is difficult to learn and use. The C language is ideal for providing highly compact, efficient, and fast execution code, significantly better than any other programming languages, such as Python, Java Script, Java, or C++. If one had the time and knowledge, the assembly code can be written that will exceed the efficiencies  of C, by a factor of up to 2. As such, it is our intent to introduce the students to some assembly language orogramming. This will also help understand the underlying architecture, so the C code can be written to better use the resources.  

PIC has done a remarkably good job in developing an online and stand-alone IDE (Integrated Development Environment) that allows smart configuration of the many peripheral and architecture modules that the microcontroller has. The Online IDE is to be used to only get familiar with the development process. However, for all assignments and exams, you will be using the stand-alone IDE that will run on your PC or Mac. The online IDE is accessed by people all around the world and thus is prone to be oversubscribed at a given time and depends on Wifi and Internet connections which all may conspire to cause undue delays and system crashes. Do note that You must have a working stand-alone IDE running on your PC and all assignments/exams will verify that indeed you are using your PC-based development environment. 
