This folder will contain information on the debugging support provided by PIC. If your systems works the first-time, chances are you did not challenge yourself much and/or there is something inherently flawed with your system! Of course, this is just meant to be aware that "not everything that glitters is gold." You may be an exception and/or diligent that your system will work the first time. But that is an unlikely scenario for most folks. 

First, the hardware archictecture is object oriented enough so it is easy to isolate the errant behavior to the hardware module level. Second, if the code is written in a modular fashion with many error checks and messages (that you can remove later, or comment out, once the code is fully functional. Some may have to be left in), you will get enough feedback to isolate the error. Note that the system error messages may not always help. They may point to wrong places.

In an embedded system, we also have access to the hardware registers and I/O registers that we can single step through to identify where the code is not leading to the behaviour we wish to have. 

Ability to debug an embedded system is more critical than with software or hardware alone. The reason is that we are building an integrated system that combines these two and interacts with the environment. So, much thought has to go into building susch systems, not only to function properly, but also be robust enough under varying conditions so something unforeseen does not happen. Examples are: a plane's navigation system that does not use redundant sensors and a sensor is malfunctioning; an airbag that does not deploy due to its non-comprehensive signature analysis algorithm - each impact results in a different signature being collected by the accelerometers and the collection is not constantly upgraded to account for newer potential accidents. 
